Greetings,

I am pleased to announce the release of PyLith 1.4.2, a finite-element
code designed to solve dynamic elastic problems and quasi-static
viscoelastic problems in tectonic deformation.

This release fixes several bugs that in the v1.4.0 and v1.4.1
releases, including (1) parameters in the power-law rheology are now
consistent with laboratory experiments, (2) fixed implementation
errors in point forces, (3) increased the stable time step for
implicit time-stepping with linear viscoelastic models from 0.1 times
the Maxwell time to 0.2 times the Maxwell time based on accuracy
tests, and (4) eliminated several memory leaks associated with output
and running in parallel.  

We strongly recommend all users of previous PyLith releases to switch
to this latest release. Switching from v1.4.0 or v1.4.1 to v1.4.2 only
requires changes to parameter files when using adaptive time stepping
with a non-default stability factor (see the release notes below for
details). See the README file for changes required to switch to the
v1.4.x release series from previous versions.

You can download the source code and binaries from

    http://geodynamics.org/cig/software/packages/short/pylith

Detailed installation instructions are in the User Manual with example
installation procedures for a few platforms in the bundled doc/install
directory.


RELEASE NOTES

 * Bug fixes

  - Parameters for the power-law rheology are now consistent with the
    parameters often reported in laboratory experiments. This should
    make it easier to use values from laboratory experiments. See the
    user manual for details.

  - Numerous errors in the Python and SWIG point source implementation
    were fixed. Point forces did not work in v1.4.1.

  - Based on accuracy tests the stable time step for implicit
    time-stepping for the Maxwell viscoelastic models has been
    increased to 0.2 times the Maxwell time. The default stability
    factor in the adaptive time-stepping has been corresponding
    adjusted to provide a time step of 0.1 times the Maxwell time.

  - Several memory leaks associated with output and running in
    parallel have been fixed.
